# EncryptionStew
encryption methods used for iOS version of Social PaL and OmniShare, Aalto University

### ECKeyPairManager
Key pair manager singleton class for elliptic curve Diffie–Hellman (ECDH). ECDH key generation based on [GMEllipticCurveCrypto](https://github.com/ricmoo/GMEllipticCurveCrypto) from Richard Moore

### RSAKeyPairManager
Asymmetric key pair manager for RSA keys in iOS. A working version of RSA2048.

On iOS platform, first an RSA key pair is generated and stored in the keychain. However, according to this [blog](http://blog.wingsofhermes.org/?p=42):

>when you export a key from the iPhone keychain, it’s exported in a cut down format – just the public key and exponent without any of the other ASN.1 stuff you’d expect in a fully encoded public key. The java crypto functions generally expect a fully encoded key (OID and all).

So when an iOS device is passing its public key to an Android device, it has to expand it out to a fully interoperable key with ASN.1 encoding in the X.509 format.

Vice versa. When an Android app as **new device** sends its public key to an iOS app, it is encoded the full X.509 format. In order to be put into iOS keychain, this Android key must be peeled off the extra data in ASN.1, such that it will only consist the public key and exponent and can be added to the keychain.

There're additional methods for iOS-Android public key exchange.
```objective-c
- (NSData *)getSelfPublicKeyBitsForAndroid;
- (NSString *)getSelfPublicKeyBase64ForAndroid;
- (BOOL)addAndroidPublicKey:(NSData*)key withTag:(NSString*)tag;
```


### AES GCM
AES in GCM mode. Since GCM mode is not supported by CommonCrypto Framework, OpenSSL is used. How to include and compile OpenSSL for iOS, please refer to its documents.


### KeyGenerator
Key generator includes:

1. a function to random generate 20-Byte key to be used for HMAC SHA1 or MD5

2. a key derivation function based on PBKDF2.

3. a HMAC SHA1 function with inputs and key in NSData format. Note most of the current solutions on SO for NSString+HMAC can only takes NSString as the key parameter, however if the key is a random generated byte array it's not practical to convert it to NSString.

### Secure Remote Password wrapper for iOS
Based on [csrp](https://github.com/hoccer/csrp) by Tom Cocagne from Hoccer GmbH.
The structure, algorithm and values mentioned in the codes are from a compatible Python module called [pysrp](http://pythonhosted.org/srp/srp.html). Please refer to this man page for notations.
It requires OpenSSL as the only dependency.

SRPClient is a class for SRP client side.

1. It generates I and A, then sends them to server(host). Alongside A it also creates an instance of `SRPUser`
2. It receives salt and B, generate session key and M
3. It sends M to host, receives H(A,M,K) and verifies if session key matches that in host

SRPHost is a class for SRP host(server) side.

1. It generates salt and a password verfier
2. It receives A from client, generate B and seesion key. Then sends salt and B to cliet. Alongside B it also creates an instance of `SRPVerifier`
3. It receives M, verifies if session key matches that in client, and sends H(A,M,K) back to server

#### Sample Usage
```objective-c
    const char * username = "testuser";
    const char * password = "password";

    const char *identity = 0;

    const unsigned char *byte_A = 0;
    const unsigned char *byte_B = 0;
    const unsigned char *byte_s = 0;
    const unsigned char *byte_M = 0;
    const unsigned char *byte_HAMK = 0;

    int len_A = 0;
    int len_B = 0;
    int len_s = 0;

    [[SRPClient client] generateClientByteAWithPassword:username andPassword:password];   // -------- step 1

    byte_A = [[SRPClient client] getABytes];
    len_A = [[SRPClient client] getALength];

    identity = [[SRPClient client] getIdentity];

    [[SRPHost host] generateSaltAndVerificationWithIdentity:identity andPassword:password];    // -------- step 2
    [[SRPHost host] generateSessionKeyWithBytesA:byte_A lengthA:len_A];            // ----------- step 3

    byte_B = [[SRPHost host] getBytes];
    len_B = [[SRPHost host] getBLength];

    byte_s = [[SRPHost host] getSaltBytes];
    len_s = [[SRPHost host] getSaltLength];

    [[SRPClient client] generateSessionKeyWithBytesB:byte_B lengthB:len_B salt:byte_s lengthSalt:len_s]; // -------- step 4

    byte_M = [[SRPClient client] getMBytes];

    int isHostVerified = [[SRPHost host] verifySessionWithBytesM:byte_M];  // -------- step 5
    NSLog(@"host verify %d",isHostVerified);

    byte_HAMK = [[SRPHost host] getHAMKBytes];
    int isClientVerified = [[SRPClient client] verifySessionWithBytesHAMK:byte_HAMK];  // -------- step 6
    NSLog(@"client verify %d",isClientVerified);
```
